.TH "input-linux-mouse" 7 "2003-08-11" "libgii-1.0.x" GGI
.SH NAME
\fBinput-linux-mouse\fR : Direct mouse input
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nb
.nf
input-linux-mouse: [<mousetype>] [,<file>] [,[b<bauds>][r<rts>][d<dtr>]]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
This input opens a file (usually a device file or pipe) and reads
mouse protocol data from it.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fImousetype\fR
Indicates what type of mouse is attached.  The following
types are supported:
.RS
.IP \(bu 4
\f(CWms\fR, \f(CWMicrosoft\fR : Two button Microsoft compatible mice.
.IP \(bu 4
\f(CWms3\fR, \f(CWIntelliMouse\fR, \f(CWmman+\fR : Serial Intellimouse or
compatible. Supports four buttons for mice like the Logitech
MouseMan+.
.IP \(bu 4
\f(CWMouseSystems\fR, \f(CWmsc\fR : MouseSystems compatible (used in
most 3-button mice).
.IP \(bu 4
\f(CWLogitech\fR, \f(CWlogi\fR :  Used in older Logitech serial mice.
.IP \(bu 4
\f(CWmm\fR, \f(CWMMSeries\fR :    MM series mice.
.IP \(bu 4
\f(CWSun\fR : Sun mice. The protocol is the same as 'msc' protocol
except it used only 3 bytes per packet.
.IP \(bu 4
\f(CWMouseMan\fR, \f(CWmman\fR :  MouseMan protocol.
.IP \(bu 4
\f(CWBusMouse\fR, \f(CWbm\fR : Non-PS/2 busmice.
.IP \(bu 4
\f(CWLinuxUSB\fR, \f(CWlnxusb\fR : IMPS2 that doesn't choke on USB (no
init attempted).
.IP \(bu 4
\f(CWps2\fR, \f(CWPS/2\fR : PS/2 mice (most non-serial mice use this
protocol)
.IP \(bu 4
\f(CWimps2\fR, \f(CWIMPS/2\fR : PS/2 IntelliMouse and compatible (not
USB, see lnxusb for that.)
.IP \(bu 4
\f(CWmmanps2\fR, \f(CWMouseManPlusPS/2\fR : PS/2 Logitech MouseMan+ and
compatible.
.PP
Most of the strings supported by GPM, SVGAlib and XFree can be
specified.  If you find one that isn't, please report.

The special value \f(CWauto\fR tells \fBinput-linux-mouse\fR to read
\fB~/.ggi/input/linux-mouse\fR, and if that fails,
\fB$sysconfdir/ggi/input/linux-mouse\fR.  If none of the two files are
found, \fBinput-linux-mouse\fR tries to auto-detect the mouse, and as
a last resort uses the mouse information specified in
\fB/etc/vga/libvga.config\fR.

.RE
.TP
\fIfile\fR
The file to read mouse protocol data from; defaults to
\fB/dev/mouse\fR.

.TP
\fIbaud\fR
Baud rate of mouse device.

.TP
\fIrts\fR
Turns off RTS if set to \f(CW0\fR; turns RTS on if
set to a number greater than 0.

.TP
\fIdtr\fR
Turns off DTR if set to \f(CW0\fR; turns DTR on if set
to a number greater than 0.

.PP
.SH FEATURES
.IP \(bu 4
Generates evPtr* events.
.PP
.SH FILES
\fB~/.ggi/input/linux-mouse\fR and \fB$sysconfdir/ggi/input/linux-mouse\fR
consists of the following entries:

.nb
.nf
mouse mousetype
mdev file
.fi

where \fImousetype\fR and \fIfile\fR has the same semantics as the
invocation options of the same names.
