.TH "input-directx" 7 "2005-07-31" "libgii-1.0.x" GGI
.SH NAME
\fBinput-directx\fR : Win32 DirectX input
.SH SYSNOPSIS
.nb
.nf
input-directx
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
Used for Win32 DirectX port of libGGI.  This target cannot be used
without the DirectX display target, which loads this automatically.

DirectX 7 is required.
.SH FEATURES
.IP \(bu 4
Generates evPtr* events, but not evPtrRelative by default. Use:

.nb
.nf
ggiAddEventMask(vis, emPtrRelative);
.fi

to get them.
.IP \(bu 4
Generates evKey* events. Key repeat messages are generated at
the keyboard rate and keyboard delay specified in the keyboard
control panel by emulating what Windows does.

Dead keys work almost as expected (see the Bugs section below).
.IP \(bu 4
Game controllers with absolute axes. The DirectX Point-Of-View (POV)
control type is mapped to an axis (indicating the current direction
of the POV control) and a button indicating if the POV control is
currently in that direction or if it is centered with no direction
at all. The long name of the POV axis is \f(CWPOV x (btn y)\fR where
\f(CWbtn y\fR indicates what button is connected to \f(CWPOV x\fR.
.PP
.SH BUGS
.IP \(bu 4
When using relative pointer motion \f(CWevPtrRelative\fR, suming up the
values from the correct (albeit unknown) starting point is not
equivalent to using absolute pointer motion \f(CWevPtrAbsolute\fR. Use
absolute pointer motion (the default) if you want to keep in sync
with the on screen cursor.
.IP \(bu 4
When pressing a dead key, the next key should sometimes not emit
an emulated key press for the dead key. E.g. a dead tilde (~) followed
by a cursor key should not emit an emulated tilde. It should try to
combine the dead tilde with the key following the cursor key (e.g. n,
to make a ntilde), in order to match what Windows does.
.IP \(bu 4
The system keyboard device always reports 256 keys, which is obviously
not always correct.
.IP \(bu 4
It is not possible to not open game controllers, which wastes system
resources should the application not be interested into them.
.PP
