.TH "libgii" 7 "2006-12-30" "libgii-1.0.x" GGI
.SH NAME
\fBlibgii\fR : A flexible library for input handling
.SH DESCRIPTION
LibGII is an input library developed by the GGI Project.  Its
design philosophy is similar to LibGGI, which deals with graphics
output.
LibGII is based on the concept of input streams, which virtualize
access to the underlying input drivers. Events from various input
devices are abstracted into easy-to-use structures. LibGII also allows
the application to join streams together, receiving input from an
arbitrary combination of devices.

LibGII is a separate component from LibGGI, although LibGGI depends on
LibGII for input purposes.  (LibGGI's input functions are simply
wrappers for LibGII functions.)
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
The following outlines the environment variables, intended for the
user, which affect the behaviour of LibGII:
.TP
\fBGII_INPUT\fR
The default input source(s) and/or filter(s) to use when giiOpen()
is called with a NULL argument.  The format is: \f(CWinput:inputargs\fR.
Multiple inputs can be specified by this notation: \f(CW(i1):(i2) ...\fR.
.RS
\fBNote:\fR
This setting does not affect LibGGI visuals automatically
opening inputs. Use the \f(CWGGI_INPUTx\fR variable instead.
.RE

.TP
\fBGII_DEBUG\fR
The debug level for LibGII:
.RS
.IP \(bu 4
0 or unset : debug output is off; debugging is off
.IP \(bu 4
255 : all debug output is on
.PP
You may also bitwise 'or' any of the following together:
.IP \(bu 4
2   : debug core
.IP \(bu 4
32  : misc debugging output
.IP \(bu 4
64  : debug dynamic library handling
.IP \(bu 4
128 : debug event handling
.PP

.RE
.TP
\fBGII_DEBUGSYNC\fR
Turn on synchronous debug output, flushing the output buffers
before returning from \fBDPRINT\fR calls.

.TP
\fBGII_CONFDIR\fR
Override compiled-in path to global config files (Win32 only,
but not Cygwin).

.PP
Other environment variables specific to filters and inputs are
documented in the corresponding manual page.
.SH SEE ALSO
\f(CWlibgii.conf(5)\fR, \f(CWfilter-keytrans(7)\fR, \f(CWfilter-mouse(7)\fR,
\f(CWfilter-save(7)\fR, \f(CWfilter-tcp(7)\fR, \f(CWinput-directx(7)\fR, 
\f(CWinput-linux-kbd(7)\fR, \f(CWinput-mouse(7)\fR, \f(CWinput-file(7)\fR, 
\f(CWinput-linux-mouse(7)\fR, \f(CWinput-tcp(7)\fR,
\f(CWinput-linux-evdev(7)\fR, \f(CWinput-lk201(7)\fR.
